.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii tsrip.1
.\"
.TH tsrip 1 "2006 November 04"
.SH NAME
tsrip - a cd ripping and encoding program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tsrip
[options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tsrip
is an easy to use cd ripping and encoding application. It features ogg
encoding and tagging from the musicbrainz database. For getting audio data
from audio cds it uses cdparanoia. Ripping and encoding is done on the fly, so
there's no overhead in writing wav files and encoding them afterwards. Also,
tsrip enables you to tag your albums with a "DISC" tag out of the box, so you
don't need to use ugly album names like "foo (disc x)".
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-m,\ \-\-multidisc
Ask for disc number.
.TP
.BI \-d\  device ,\ \-\-device\  device
Use
.I device
as source. By default, tsrip tries to automatically determine a suitable
drive.
.TP
.BI \-p\  mode ,\ \-\-paranoiamode\  mode
Paranoia mode to use, where mode is: off, verify, fragment, overlap,
scratch, repair, neverskip or full. Default is repair.
.TP
.BI \-s,\ \-\-stripspaces
Replace spaces by underscores.
.TP
.BI \-l,\ \-\-lowercase
Lowercase ASCII chars in path.
.TP
.BI \-\-musicdir\  dir
Directory where files should be saved. Default is ~/music
.TP
.BI \-\-vorbisquality\  1-10
The vorbis quality to use. 10 ist best quality. Default is 4.
.TP
.BI \-u,\ \-\-usage
Print usage information
.TP
.BI \-v,\ \-\-version
Print version
.TP
.BI \-h,\ \-\-help
Print help
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.tsriprc
The configuration file for tsrip.
.SH AUTHOR
Sven Salzwedel <sven_salzwedel@web.de>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR tsriprc (1)
